Because I have to be at a meeting at 3, so I've got to
leave at about 1 in Austin. Oh, oh, oh. Then we will
have to go until 1.
When your freshman year, when you were going to go
home, how did you get back and forth? How did you
travel? Hitchhike. Describe Aggie hitchhiking.
Uniform and a maroon and white bag that said TAM on
it and Just as good as having a car. And where did you
catch your ride from College Station? Where did
you? Out here on 21. I'd go to Somerville and then
back through La Grange and then get on 77. Or I'd go
to 21 all the way to 77 up there and get back. I never
had. I could get home hitchhiking almost the exact
same time that I could get home with a car. Did you
ever have any negative experience hitchhiking?
Uh-uh. Well, I had one guy. I had one guy who was an
older Hispanic guy, and he had just bought a purple
Pontiac Catalina. And I was going to A&I to see my
girlfriend at the time, and he picked me up in
LaGrange. He said, you're in the Army? I said, no,
I'm in A&M. He said, well, where are you going? And I
said, well, as far as you'll go, but I need to go all
the way to Kingsville. He said, well, I'll go to
Kingsville. I just bought this car, and I got a case
of Jack's beer in the back, and why don't we just go
to Kingsville? And I said, golly, if that's okay
with you. We were using up most of two lanes getting
down there. We got there, and he got to Kingsville.
He was a great guy. Got to Kingsville, turned
around, and going back to Giddings. Now, did the
hitchhiking routine continue throughout your
four years for students in general? Yeah. Well, I
finally got my senior year, I got my sister's car
that was new when she went to UT, so it was five years
old when I got it. But it was still, hitchhiking was
still going on. Oh, yeah. You bet. The...
On this all-male campus, how did you and your
buddies get dates, or almost all-male? Oh, we
usually didn't. Well,
we were a little bit lucky in that one of the guys in
our outfit couldn't handle all this stuff, and he
went to Stephen F. Austin. and became a disc jockey
in Stephen F. Austin, somewhat of a celebrity. And
so he would call us on a pretty regular basis and
have us come up to Nacogdoches and visit with him.
And then I
had friends at the University of Texas, TU, so we'd
go there and get dates there. But my first couple of
years, I was dating this girl from A&I, and so she
would always come up and I'd always Always go down
there, but... Where did a date like that stay when
she was here? Where did she spend the night? In a
hotel. Okay. Because no longer was it normal for
them to spend the night with a faculty... Yeah, no.
That was gone. It was just hotel room. One of these
hotels around here, they were... Were the tests
still coming down in large numbers?
I guess about my freshman year, and it kind of
started... When I was a senior,
when I was a junior, the Aggie sweetheart, or
whatever you call it, was still from TWU. When I was
a senior, we changed that in student government
and made it local. Describe how that change came
about. That's an important point. Well,
actually, I did it, we did it through student
government. We just decided it was time and so when
my senior year in student government, we passed
the deal. I remember going to TWU and just saying,
you know, we're getting so big now and it's
becoming offensive to ladies here and stuff like
that and we're going to do it there. And so we just
did and I put a guy named David Moore in charge of,
you know, deal. He's a stockbroker now in Tyler.
And I'm sure it was quite coincidental that the
girl that became the first Aggie sweetheart from
here is now his wife.
And his daughter is a student here now. How did the
women at TWU respond, react to the decision? I
think okay. I think some of them were not too happy,
but it wasn't a bad visit. I remember going up there
and explaining to them that we were going to do
this. And the student senate at the time of that
decision was entirely all male? No. There were
some women in there? Was there much disagreement
with the decision? Almost none. It was just time.
Let's talk about campus administrative
leadership. Describe Earl Rudder as you and your
buddies saw him. Well, see, he died, I think, when I
was maybe the end of my freshman year. You came in
fall of 68? When did he die? Early 70. Early 70? So at
the end of my sophomore year, something like that.
Well, I only got to see him one time because I was, I
mean, I was sophomore class president and class
presidents didn't, get in that realm. I knew Jack
Williams obviously a lot better. Earl Rudder was
viewed as a god. He really was. All you heard was
stories about Omaha and Earl Rudder. He was
generally viewed as the guy that saved A&M, but the
core If he was viewed as a guy that diversified A&M,
he was also, because of his war record, the Corps
just revered him. Nobody I knew ever met the man,
but he was just like a god to all. Did you all think
that anybody could argue with him or protest?
No. We didn't do protests. I remember during that
time there were a lot of protests on campuses. When
Jack Williams first came in, his first day, first
night here, there was about 10 of us. It was a corps
commander, a committee of about five people and
students in it. I was one of them. Kent was one of
them and several others. And we must have put 2,000
people in his front yard. I'm sure he looked out
there and thought, oh, my God, here I am right in the
middle of, you know, a student protest and it was
just us welcoming him to A&M. I remember the media
were pretty shocked that you'd have a student
demonstration welcoming a new president to A&M.
What did describe Jack Williams as you and other
students understood him? Real smart. Real smart
guy. I mean, he was a real no nonsense guy. Didn't
take very long. I remember we were setting up
something... What's that professor's name? He's
like a physical... Wehmeyer...
He was vice president for academic affairs during
Williams' time. Oh, Dick Winerdi. Winerdi, yeah.
Anyway, we had decided we wanted something called
a disciplinary appeals where you couldn't just
kick a kid out of school. You had to at least have
somebody review it and stuff like that, and we'd
worked all this stuff out with Winerdi. And I
remember the meeting with Williams lasted about
4.2 minutes. He said, fine, did it, done. He didn't
tarry around too long with his decisions. He knew
what he wanted to do. What about him as a public
speaker? Well, I thought he was good. I saw him at
a... I went with him. particularly my senior year,
travel with him to listen to a lot of his speeches
and sometimes the two of us to do one from the
student perspective and stuff like that. I
thought he was a great public speaker. Describe
from that year when you were student body
president, describe some of those trips. Well, we
would go to, I remember one time we went to, it was
like a Rotary Club or a Lions Club or somewhere. I
think it was in Texarkana. I'm not real sure. But I
remember the guy gets up I had already said a little
blurb about A&M and the guy gets up and introduces
Dr. Williams with an Aggie joke. And Williams, I
mean the guy, by the time Williams finished within
the first five minutes, the guy I'm sure just got on
his all fours and crawled out. It was just, you
know, terrible. That didn't happen anymore. That
got around pretty good. But what Williams could do
is, For those, he's so cerebral, for those people
that, you know, mistakenly thought A&M was a bunch
of clodbusters and stuff like that, all of a sudden
you listen to that guy's speeches, boy, that's a
whole new image of what they were used to. So I think
one of the things he added a lot to was, He made us
this national presence academically. Did an
awful lot for that. Did you ever go with him to
anything political? Like political fundraisers
and stuff like that? Or to Austin to a hearing or
anything like that? Oh, one time. Yeah, just a
little show-off deal where they took some
students with them before Senate Finance
Committee and wanted to have plenty of short hair.
haircuts and stuff like that, so I went to a few,
maybe one or two of those. How skillful was he with
the real world politicians? The what? How
skillful was he with politicians? Oh, he was good.
He was good. He was really good at all of it. He
didn't, I mean, Heatley never liked him, and that
wasn't going to change. I don't know what caused
that, but once you cross Heatley, it doesn't ever
change. I know Heatley real well, and if Heatley
buries the hatchet, he always remembers where he
buried the hatchet. He was like that. But, no, he
was good. I think the appropriations during that
period of time were some of their better clips. Of
course, it didn't hurt at that time to have, you
know, the chairman of the State Affairs Committee
in the Senate, a member of the Budget Board. Bill
Preston was chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee. Bill Clayton was Speaker of the House
of Representatives. I mean, that don't hurt too
bad. Yeah, yeah. And let's see, Conley had
finished his, who was the governor at that point?
Briscoe. Briscoe, Briscoe. And he had Reagan
Brown there doing all of the A&M stuff. Back to
campus student life. Here's one that I haven't
asked many people. Do junior buddies know about
any steam tunnels? Sure. Describe steam tunnels
and what went on in steam tunnels. We didn't do it
for any illicit purposes. There were some rumors
that people would use them to try to get into you
guys' offices where you had tests and stuff like
that, but we thought that was more easily done by
simply scaling the walls. No, we would just go in
them, not as freshmen and sophomores because they
never would let us out for stuff like that, but
Yeah, on weekends when there was nothing to do, no
football season going on, we'd go into the Stephen
Tunnels and just wander and see where we came out.
Where did you normally enter, though? Over by the
academic building. Okay, and you could go how far?
To the other end of campus, best I could tell. To
engineering, to Zachary? Oh, see, that was just
being built down there. I remember when I was a...
When I was a senior is when they dedicated to
Zacherville, and I remember that dedication.
Could you go to the MSC? Yeah, right up to it. Yeah.
Yeah, I think you could kind of go pretty much
everywhere. I mean, I'm sure there's skeletons
down there somewhere where somebody never got
out. And you used flashlights? Uh-huh. Because
there's no lights in the tunnel. No. And about how,
what are the dimensions of the tunnels? Oh, well,
you can, you can, you know, stand up straight, but
you've got to kind of hunch over a little bit to get
through. And there's a bunch of wires and pipes in
it. How wide? Oh, as wide as that door, maybe, maybe
a little less. And were there any unwritten rules
about who was not to be in the tunnels? Nah, we just
lifted up the grate. Was it by and large, though,
core primarily? Well, every time I went in, I'm
sure there were other kids that did the same thing,
but we would go in and just kind of see how lost we
could get and see where we came up. And there'd be a
fork in the deal and one group would go one place and
we'd find out where we were. Now, when you were
student body president your senior year, would
that have been acceptable for you to be in the steam
tunnel? Nah, that wouldn't have been very good.
Okay, so. It wouldn't have been very good. Do you
have any information or
rumors about secret fraternities that you can
share with this machine? No. I always heard those
rumors, little snippets of them, but I don't know
anything about them. You don't know anything
about them? No. Of all the people I've asked, only
John Lindsay has admitted that he was a member, and
they did exist. The only thing that I was a member
of, anything like that, was something called the
Fine Guys Association that Ed Cooper started. And
Ed Cooper and Kent Caperton and Roger Miller and I
and Chet Edwards and a whole bunch of guys under
Cooper's great direction founded the Fine Guys
Association, which best I could tell, primary
purpose was to drink beer.
And we would always do that at Peggy and Ed's house.
And then Ed would try to get us home. So y'all didn't
get into much trouble. No. Were there any world
important off-campus events while you were a
student here? Vietnam War the whole time.
Everybody was real concerned about that. I mean,
all of us that were in the Corps just assumed You
know, we had a couple choices. We could quit school
and go in as a private or we could stay and go in as a
lieutenant and we decided we're going to go in as a
lieutenant and try to see if we can survive that
way. I remember being in a hall the night that Nixon
drew the lottery and, you know, as everybody's
number was called, they would groan and go to bed.
And did you guys ever talk about what it might be
like to go over there? Oh yeah, because we knew
people that would come back from campus all the
time and would go into our military science
classes and tell us what was going on over there and
stuff like that. And there was no demonstration
here against the war was there? Zero. If there
would have been a demonstration on this campus, it
would have been for it. If there was opposition to
it, which I'm sure there was, it never surfaced at
all. I was trying to think of, like everybody knows
where they were when they heard that Kennedy had
been shot or D-Day or Pearl Harbor, but there was no
event like that. What about the moon landing? I was
just getting out of high school. Let's see.
Student indulgences. Where did students go on a
Saturday night to have a wild time? Ralph's Pizza.
That's all we had. Where were the favorite beer
halls? Ralph's Pizza. Was Sparky's yet at
Eastgate? I don't remember that. Ralph's Pizza
was a place over here on, it's not there anymore.
And Uncle Ed's was gone. I don't remember Uncle Ed.
Down Welborn Road, there was a place run by a Czech
named Hrdlicka, H-Y-R-D-L-Y-C-K-A, but it was
pronounced Hardlickers. Oh, really? And that, 20
years before you were here, that was where you
could walk down about a half mile. No, Rouse
Pizza's about all we had, and then there was a
couple of dance halls, Lakeview and Deanville,
but that's if you just wanted to go get beat up. I
remember Kent Caperton... afforded me that
opportunity one night in Deanville. He goes over
and picks a fight with some guy about three times,
of course, everybody's three times bigger in
Caperton. And the guy said, well, you're too
little to fight. I said, yeah, I know, but I brought
my friend.
We didn't stay very long. Did any of your friends
ever go buy anything at Whiskey Bridge? When
I was here, out of Highway 6, there was a little
series of liquor stores. Well, 60, straight west
towards Snook, just across the bridge. I don't
know. I remember hearing about Whiskey Bridge.
Where we always went to buy our whiskey was
straight out of Highway 6. There was a place on the
right before it all got voted in here, and we'd just
get it all from there. Let's go back to athletic
times. Describe your going on a court trip. Did you
go as a freshman? Uh-huh. Where? We usually did two
a year. It was usually Houston. Austin was usually
one of them, obviously, every other year. And then
Houston was one. And Fort Worth usually was one.
Dallas. How did you get up there? But we'd go with
somebody that had a car. Where would you stay? A
cheap hotel. Okay. And then what would y'all do on
Friday night? We would what you call drink whiskey
and drink beer. And, you know, everybody would
usually have a date for something like that. How
did you get those dates? Oh, well, mine usually
came from Kingsville. Oh, so you're... Yeah, or
somebody, there was a whole bunch of fixing up,
too. I mean, somebody from Dallas, oh, I've got,
you know, a sister with 10 friends or something
like that, and so that was a... Do you remember any
court trip anecdotes that are worth sharing? No,
just trying to remember them is a real challenge.
Amusing or goofy or... No. What if you literally
couldn't go on that court trip? Was there any
punishment? When, on Monday? I don't know of
anybody that never, that missed it. I don't think
it was an optional deal. I mean, you had to be
pretty, pretty sick. That was a, yeah. And how did
the spectators on the street respond to the
chorus? I was always shocked. You know, I never was
big on parades. I wouldn't go to, you know, it's
kind of like rodeos, you know, once you've been to
one, once you've ridden in one, why do you want to go
again? But it was, Oh, it was just real uplifting, I
guess is the best word, to go through Houston and
see people ten deep just there for the Corps and the
band. And Austin, you know, I remember the first
time I ever went to the Corps trip in Austin, I
thought, well, God, these people are going to be
throwing stuff at us, but there's so many darn
Aggies in Austin, you know, and they were all
there. I said, no, it was a, We were always pretty
amazed at the number of people that would turn out,
particularly Houston and Austin. Do you have any
special court trip memory or something? No, I'm
sure I do, but I can't think of any.
Let's do a football Saturday here. Describe what
it was like for you as a student. What did you do
when?
Well, your date would usually come in on Friday,
and they'd figure out how to get their selves here
and come to your dormitory, be screamed at
properly by all the people hanging out the windows
and stuff. And then probably, oh, maybe a dance or
something like that that was some student
sponsored event. Usually a concert. We had great
concerts. I mean, MSC put on really good concerts
with Chris Christopherson. Whoever was hot at the
time was always here. And so it was pretty easy to
get a date to come see the Beach Boys or come see
somebody that was playing at the time. And we'd
usually go to that. And then Saturdays were pretty
hectic because you had to do the core stuff too.
What time did those Saturdays begin? Oh, it was 6. I
mean, you know, because you had to do all the core
stuff. The rooms had to be sparkling because all
the parents and dates and all were going to be
coming up there, so everything had to be just right
and had to be inspected and all this kind of stuff.
Uniforms had to be perfect. and then you know the
depending on the time of the game your dates would
come in and then you they would we would form up in
the core behind the band and go to the stadium and
our dates would walk along beside us and then go to
our whatever seats we had and then we'd do the
review inside and then go go to the seats and
usually Well, I guess usually after the game was
generally when you had the concert. It was usually
Saturday night or something like that. And Friday
night would be midnight Yale practice and
students, women students or whoever from other
campuses always thought that was... And they were
held in the stadium. They were what? Were they in
the stadium then or... See, earlier they'd been at
the Y steps, but Midnight Yale practice was in the
stadium. In the stadium. But all we did back then,
we just filled up the horseshoe. I mean, we didn't
go like it does now. My first Midnight Yale
practice, Rick Peer and I ran out of the stadium.
Well, we were...
I'm sure we weren't drunk. I'm sure we were just
exuberant because it was our first minute of air
practice. For some reason we decided that we were
going to go down on the field and we could be yell
leaders too and we were going to help these people
out. They gently pushed us and then somebody threw
an M-80 at us. And so we crawled into, this is a
terrible story, but we crawled into, remember
they had grass at the time and those big old tubes
that rolled the corks out? We crawled into one of
those. Somebody thought that was lots of fun, so
they threw an M-80 in there with us. And when that
thing went off, I mean, it just, it was just
deafening. And so we ran toward the other end of the
field. And we didn't see Rick until the game. We
don't know where he's been tonight. But somehow I
managed to find my way back. But it was, I don't even
remember our first shell practice. Now, when you
were a senior. I was much better behaved when I was a
senior. Were you, your date in those days, is she
your wife now? No, I didn't meet her until later.
But when I was a senior, I was dating a girl that was
an A&M student, Merrill Mitchell. Describe what
the student body president had to do on a football
Saturday. Did you have any? Usually, yeah,
usually had a little former student deal where the
big money guys with the former student
association would come in and they'd want the
corps commander and the student body president to
come say a few words about how, you know, how much we
appreciate their support and it was a, you guys are
doing great and I give more money kind of deal. And I
spent a lot of time doing that. I would, on
weekends, They'd fly me to Tyler to go speak to the
Tyler A&M Club, which is a pretty neat deal for a kid
from Placido. They're putting you on a King Air
with your date and sending you to Tyler to go speak
to a bunch of wealthy former students about why
they need to keep giving to A&M. And so I did a bunch
of that, particularly on weekends and stuff like
that. But on a football weekend... It was like
every Saturday morning, bright and early, a
breakfast deal with the Association of Former
Students. Buck Wires would have some deal for me to
go speak to, and then after the game, there'd be
another gathering of former students somewhere,
and I'd go by there, generally with the Corps
commander and the civilian student president,
and show them what clean-cut kids we were. Then
where did you stand during the game? Which
students? You were in the students. Was there a
reserved seat for the student body president? No.
And then after the game... Our parents got pretty
good seats. After the game, were things kind of
relaxed for you? Yeah, nothing to do. Sometimes
Sunday morning there'd be another bleary-eyed
speech. And your senior year is the fall of 71. Fall
of 71, graduated May of 72. And we didn't do well in
football that year, did we? Was that Emory's first
year? Yeah, I don't think we did well four years
that I was there. I mean, we started kissing our
dates on first downs. And Gene Stallings was the
coach during most of that. Most of the time, and
Emory Ballard after that. Let's see. Describe
going to basketball games in G. Raleigh in those
days. Dangerous. dangerous if you were the
opposing team and you did a layup. See back in those
days they would seat Billy Hobbs and all these guys
right under the baskets and so if a guy from Baylor
comes up and does a layup and they push him into the
crowd I mean it was not a good deal. I mean they'd
beat the hell out of him five or six times before
they sent him back on the field And it was, I mean,
that was a common deal. I don't know if they still do
that or not, but that seating was very close, and it
seemed like almost every game something broke out
in the D.O.U. And the team was winning. Basketball
was doing good. That's what I mean. Yeah, Shelby.
And it was noisy. Very noisy, big time, huge noise.
Were there any favorite opponents? We had a real
serious hate for Rice during the four years that I
was there. Rice was always, you know, Rice little
band made a picture of a fire hydrant one time and
darn near emptied the football stadium. People
got so mad about that. You know, Rice was not well
loved at the time. A&M traditions.
Silver taps. Describe going to silver taps. You
said a member of your squadron died. The first
silver taps we had as fish was for the guy that lived
next door to me, a guy named Tom Stein from Honda.
And so it was, I mean, I'm sure it was a moving
experience for everybody that was there, but for
those of us that had known this guy through fish
camp and for maybe a month, it was a, boy, it was a
real gut-wrenching deal. But it stayed that way
the whole time. I mean, it almost, almost always, I
mean, the school was small enough then where we
almost always met that guy or girl, whoever it was.
And it probably happened five or six times during
the year, a car wreck or some deal like that. And
y'all always took it seriously? Always
seriously, eerily quiet, not a word. Went back to
our dormitories and if you had to study you had to
put a black quilt over your deal to make sure and
there was somebody in a corps walking around those
dorms making sure that no light came out of those
dorms until the morning. Describe Bonfire your
freshman year. Well, bonfire freshman year, we
were out in the woods. And so we didn't get close to
the stack. We were out there. Somebody was cutting
the trees down. We were cutting the branches off
and then loading the stuff on the stick. And so we
stayed out in the woods for a week or whatever it was
and never saw the bonfire in the daylight until the
morning before it was built. And we did that for the
whole year. four years, that was our job. And it was
held where? Bonfire was located over on the other
side of Duncan, over there. And the shape of
Bonfire in your years was about how many stacks
high?
I think my senior year was one of the years where it
was 107 feet. Oh, that was one of the tall years.
Yeah, it was. But we wrapped the...